# Mini Library Management System
by: **Daniel Alejandro Garzon Villa**

This project is an API REST following the MVC (Model-View-Controller) pattern, designed to handle operations protected by authentication and authorization. The endpoints are secured, and only the administrator has full access to most of them. 

## Instructions to Build and Run the Project

### Prerequisites
1. Docker and Docker Compose installed on your machine.
2. Maven to compile the project.

### Steps to Run the Project

1. **Build the project:**

   Before running the containers, you need to package the project using Maven. Open a terminal at the root of the project and run the following command:

   ```bash
   mvn clean package
   ```
2. **Run Docker Compose:**

   After building the project, run the services defined in the docker-compose.yml file. From the same terminal, run:

    ```bash
    docker-compose up
    ```
3. **Access the API Endpoints:**

    Once the services are up and running, you can access the API documentation through Swagger. Open a browser and go to:

   http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html#/

    From there, you can interact with the API endpoints. Keep in mind that most of them are protected by authentication and authorization.

4. **Authentication:**

   To test the endpoints, you must register and log in. The administrator credentials are available in the application logs.

    * The administrator credentials can be found in the logs generated by the application.

    * Endpoints are secured, and only the admin user has access to most of them. There are two endpoints available to all users.

## High-Level Architectural Decisions

###  MVC Architecture
   ### Unit and Integration Tests
   ### Authentication and Authorization System
   ### Exception Handling

## Technologies Used

* Spring Boot: For building the API.
* Maven: For dependency management and project building.
* Docker: For containerizing the application's services.
* Swagger: For interactive API documentation.
* JPA: For database management and entity mapping.
* H2 Databas

